OSDOCS:14467 [GA] Pin and preload images (#92741)
openshift/openshift-docs: machine_configuration/machine-config-pin-preload-images-about.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="machine-config-pin-preload-images-about"]

> = About pinning and preloading images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= About preloading and pinning images
```
Changed to match title in topic map.

Author: I went with pin and preload as the RFE, Jira issues, etc. used that format. However, technically, pre-loading does happen before pinning. I've been going back and forth over which way to present it (thus the different topic map entry, good catch!). I will ask about how we want to name this feature.

include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: machine-config-operator

toc::[]

> Slow, unreliable connection to an image registry can interfere with operations that require pulling images, such as updating a cluster or deploying an application. This can include clusters that have low bandwidth, clusters with unreliable internet connectivity, or clusters in a disconnected environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A slow, unreliable connection to an image registry can interfere with operations that require pulling images, such as updating a cluster or deploying an application. This can include clusters that have low bandwidth, clusters with unreliable internet connectivity, or clusters in a disconnected environment. 
```

> For example, a cluster update might require pulling more than one hundred images. Failure to pull those images could cause retries that can interfere with the update process and might cause the update to fail. One way to prevent this is to _preload_ the required images by pulling them in advance, before they are actually needed. Then, by _pinning_ them to a machine config pool, you ensure that the images are available when needed. Pinning and preloading images can provide a more consistent update, which is important when scheduling updates into maintenance windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a cluster update might require pulling more than one hundred images. Failure to pull those images could cause retries that can interfere with the update process and might cause the update to fail. One way to prevent this is to _preload_ the required images by pulling them in advance, before they are actually needed. Then, by _pinning_ them to a machine config pool, you ensure that the images are available when needed. Preloading and pinning images can provide a more consistent update, which is important when scheduling updates into maintenance windows.
```
- Changed the order in the last sentence to match the order of preloading before pinning that you explain in the second and third sentences.

> Pinning and preloading images also ensures that the images are available when deploying applications, which allows you to deploy in a predictable time. Another benefit to pinning and preloading images is that image garbage collection does not remove the pinned images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preloading and pinning and images also ensures that the images are available when deploying applications, so that you can deploy in a predictable time. Another benefit to preloading and pinning images is that image garbage collection does not remove the pinned images.
```

> You can pin and preload images by using a a `PinnedImageSet` custom resource (CR) as described in the following section. Pinned images are stored on the nodes in the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/50-pinned-images` file. The contents of the file appear similar to the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can preload and pin images by using a a `PinnedImageSet` custom resource (CR). Pinned images are stored on the nodes in the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/50-pinned-images` file. The contents of the file are similar to the following example:
```
I removed "as described in the following section" because I wasn't sure whether you were referring to the example immediately after this paragraph or the procedure module. Either way, I think it's clear enough that the information that follows this paragraph further explains how to preload and pin images.

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="machine-config-pin-preload-images-about"]
= About pinned images
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: machine-config-operator

toc::[]

A slow, unreliable connection to an image registry can interfere with operations that require pulling images, such as updating a cluster or deploying an application. This can include clusters that have low bandwidth, clusters with unreliable internet connectivity, or clusters in a disconnected environment. For example, a cluster update might require pulling more than one hundred images. Failure to pull those images could cause retries that can interfere with the update process and might cause the update to fail. 

One way to prevent this is to pull the required images in advance, before they are actually needed, and _pinning_ those images to specific machine config pools. This ensures that the images are available to your nodes when needed. Pinned images can provide a more consistent update, which is important when scheduling updates into maintenance windows.

> Pinned images also ensures that the images are available when deploying applications, so that you can deploy in a predictable time. 

Reviewer 2: Just curious: When you say "predictable time", does this mean that this feature will give an accurate time for deployment, or it speeds up the deployment time...maybe both?

> You can pin images to specific nodes by using a `PinnedImageSet` custom resource (CR), as described in _Pinning images_. Pinned images are stored on the nodes in the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/50-pinned-images` file on those. The contents of the file appear similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: Not sure if there is info missing in the second sentence? Unclear about what "..on those" means.
